.TH replcon 1
.SH NAME
replcon \- SELinux file context replacement tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B replcon
NEW_CONTEXT DIR [OPTIONS] [EXPRESSION]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B replcon
allows the user to find and replace file contexts.
Replacements can be filtered by object class as described below.
.SH REQUIRED ARGUMENTS
.IP NEW_CONTEXT
The replacement context as expressed as a partial context, described
below.
.IP DIR
Initial directory to begin searching.  The tool will recurse into any
subdirectories, so be sure there are no circular mounts within it.
.SH EXPRESSION
.P
The following options allow the user to specify which files to find.
A file must meet all specified criteria for its context to be
replaced.  If no expression is provided, all files' contexts are
replaced.
.IP "-t TYPE, --type=TYPE"
Search for files with a context containing the type TYPE.
.IP "-u USER, --user=USER"
Search for files with a context containing the user USER.
.IP "-r ROLE, --role=ROLE"
Search for files with a context containing the role ROLE.
.IP "-m RANGE, --mls-range=RANGE"
Search for files with a context with the MLS range of RANGE.  Note
that
.B replcon
ignores the SELinux translation library, if present.  In addition,
this flag is ignored if
.B DIR
has no MLS information.
.IP "--context=CONTEXT"
Search for files matching this partial context.  This flag overrides
-t, -u, -r, and -m.
.IP "-p PATH, --path=PATH"
Search for files which include PATH.
.IP "-c CLASS, --class=CLASS"
Search only files of object class CLASS.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-v, --verbose"
Display context info during replacement.
.IP "-h, --help"
Print help information and exit.
.IP "-V, --version"
Print version information and exit.
.SH PARTIAL CONTEXT
The
.B --context
flag and
.B NEW_CONTEXT
argument specify a partial context, which is a a colon separated list
of user, role, and type.  If the system supports MLS, the context may
have a fourth field that gives the range.  With
.B --context
if a field is not specified or is the literal asterisk, then the query
will always match the field.  With
.B NEW_CONTEXT
if a field is not specified or is the literal asterisk, then that
portion of the context will not be modified.
.SH OBJECT CLASSES
Valid object class strings are
.PP
block,
char,
dir,
fifo,
file,
link, or
sock.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B replcon ::type_t: .
Replace every context's type in the current directory with type_t.
The user and role portion remain unchanged.
.TP
.B replcon -u user_u *:role_r:* .
Replace every context's role with user user_u in the current directory
with role_r.  The user and type portion remain unchanged.
.TP
.B replcon --context ::type_t:s0 :::s0:c0 /tmp
Replace every context with type type_t and MLS range s0 in /tmp
with MLS range s0:c0.
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Jeremy A. Mowery <jmowery@tresys.com>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright(C) 2003-2007 Tresys Technology, LLC
.SH BUGS
Please report bugs via an email to setools-bugs@tresys.com.
.SH SEE ALSO
findcon(1), indexcon(1)
