.TH searchcon 1
.SH NAME
searchcon \- SELinux file context index searching tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B searchcon
INDEX [OPTIONS] [EXPRESSION]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B searchcon
allows the user to search a file context index created by
.B indexcon
or
.B
apol.
.SH EXPRESSIONS
.P
The following options allow the user to specify which files to print.
A file must meet all specified criteria.
If no expression is provided, all files in the index are printed.
.IP "-t TYPE, --type=TYPE"
Search for files with a context containing the type TYPE.
.IP "-u USER, --user=USER"
Search for files with a context containing the user USER.
.IP "-m RANGE, --mls-range=RANGE"
Search for files with a context with the MLS range of RANGE.
.IP "-p PATH, --path=PATH"
Search for files which include PATH.
.IP "-c CLASS, --class=CLASS"
Search only files of object class CLASS.
.SH OPTIONS
The following additional options are available.
.IP "-R, --regex"
Search using regular expressions instead of exact string matching.
This option does not affect the --object flag.
.IP "-l, --list"
Print a list of types in the index and exit.
.IP "-h, --help"
Print help information and exit.
.IP "-V, --version"
Print version information and exit.
.SH INFORMATION
If the index file does not contain any MLS ranges and -m was given,
then the search will return nothing.
.PP
Valid object classes are the following:
.PP
file,
dir,
lnk_file,
chr_file,
blk_file,
sock_file,
fifo_file
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Jeremy A. Mowery <jmowery@tresys.com>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright(C) 2003-2007 Tresys Technology, LLC
.SH BUGS
Please report bugs via an email to setools-bugs@tresys.com.
.SH SEE ALSO
findcon(1), replcon(1), indexcon(1), apol(1)
