.TH sediff 1
.SH NAME
sediff \- SELinux policy difference tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sediff
[OPTIONS] [EXPRESSION] ORIGINAL_POLICY ; MODIFIED_POLICY
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B sediff
allows the user to inspect the semantic differences between two SELinux policies.
.SH POLICY
.PP
.B
sediff
supports loading SELinux policies in one of three formats.
.IP "source"
A single text file containing policy source for versions 12 through 21. This file is usually named policy.conf.
.IP "binary"
A single file containing a monolithic kernel binary policy for versions 15 through 21. This file is usually named by version - for example, policy.20.
.IP "modular"
A list of policy packages each containing a loadable policy module. The first module listed must be a base module.
.PP
Policies do not need to be the same format. If not provided
.B
sediff
will print an error message and exit.
.SH EXPRESSIONS
.P
The user may specify an expression listing the policy elements to differentiate.
If not provided, all supported policy elements are examined.
.IP "-c, --class"
Find differences in permissions assigned to object classes and common permission sets.
.IP "--level"
Find differences in categories authorized for MLS levels.
.IP "--category"
Find differences in category definitions.
.IP "-t, --type"
Find differences in attributes associated with types.
.IP "-a, --attribute"
Find differences in types assigned to attributes.
.IP "-r, --role"
Find differences in types authorized for roles.
.IP "-u, --user"
Find differences in roles authorized for users.
.IP "-b, --bool"
Find differences in the default values of booleans.
.IP "-A, --avrule"
Find differences in access vector rules.
These rules are allow, neverallow, auditallow, and dontaudit rules.
.IP "-T, --terules"
Find differences in type enforcement rules.
These rules are type_transition, type_member, and type_change rules.
.IP "--role_trans"
Find differences in role_transition rules.
This includes differences in the default role.
.IP "--role_allows"
Find differences in role allow rules.
.IP "--range_trans"
Find differences in range_transition rules.  This includes differences
in the target MLS range.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-q, --quiet"
If there are no differences for elements of a given kind,
suppress status output for that kind of element.
.IP "--stats"
Print difference statistics only.
.IP "-h, --help"
Print help information and exit.
.IP "-V, --version"
Print version information and exit.
.SH DIFFERENCES
.PP
.B
sediff
categorizes differences in policy elements into one of three forms.
.RS
.IP "added"
The element exists only in the modified policy.
.IP "removed"
The element exists only in the original policy.
.IP "modified"
The element exists in both policies but its semantic meaning has changed.
For example, a class is modified if one or more permissions are added or removed.
.RE
.PP
For all rules with types as their source or target, two additional forms of difference are recognized.
This helps distinguish differences due to new types from differences in rules for existing types.
.RS
.IP "added, new type"
The rule exists only in the modified policy;
furthermore, one or more of the types in the rule do not exist in the original policy.
.IP "removed, missing type"
The rule exists only in the original policy;
furthermore, one or more of the types in the rule do not exist in the modified policy.
.RE
.SH NOTE
Most shells interpret the semicolon as a metacharacter, thus requiring
a backslash like so:
.B
sediff original.policy \\; modified.policy
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Jeremy A. Mowery <jmowery@tresys.com>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright(C) 2004-2007 Tresys Technology, LLC
.SH BUGS
Please report bugs via an email to setools-bugs@tresys.com.
.SH SEE ALSO
sediffx(1)
