.TH sediffx 1
.SH NAME
sediffx \- graphical SELinux policy difference tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sediffx
[\-d] [ORIGINAL_POLICY ; MODIFIED_POLICY]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B sediffx
allows the user to graphically inspect the semantic differences between two SELinux policies.
All supported policy elements are examined.
.SH POLICY
.PP
.B 
sediffx
supports loading SELinux policies in one of three formats. 
.IP "source"
A single text file containing policy source for versions 12 through 21. This file is usually named policy.conf.
.IP "binary"
A single file containg a monolithic kernel binary policy for versions 15 through 21. This file is usually named by version - for example, policy.20.
.IP "modular"
A list of policy packages each containing a loadable policy module. The first module listed must be a base module.
.PP
Policies do not need to be the same format. If not provied
.B
sediffx
will begin with no policies loaded.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-d, --diff-now"
Load the policies and differentiate them immediately.
This option requires the user to specify the policies on the command line.
.IP "-h, --help"
Print help information and exit.
.IP "-v, --version"
Print version information and exit.
.SH DIFFERENCES
.PP
.B
sediffx
categorizes differences in policy elements into one of three forms.
.RS
.IP "added"
The element exists only in the modified policy.
.IP "removed"
The element exists only in the original policy.
.IP "modified"
The element exists in both policies but its semantic meaning has changed.
For example, a class is modified if one or more permissions are added or removed.
.RE
.PP
For all rules with types as their source or target, two additional forms of difference are recognized.
This helps distinguish differences due to new types from differences in rules for existing types.
.RS
.IP "added, new type"
The rule exists only in the modified policy;
furthermore, one or more of the types in the rule do not exist in the original policy.
.IP "removed, missing type"
The rule exists only in the original policy;
furthermore, one or more of the types in the rule do not exist in the modified policy.
.RE
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Jeremy A. Mowery <jmowery@tresys.com>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright(C) 2005-2007 Tresys Technology, LLC
.SH SEE ALSO
sediff(1)
