SELinux Policy Analysis Tool Help File
apol, version 3.0
October 1, 2006
selinux@tresys.com

Overview
--------
This file contains basic help information for using apol, a graphical
policy analysis tools for Security Enhanced (SELinux) Type Enforcement
(TE) security policies.  The tool provides the ability to:

  + Examine, search, and relate policy components (types, type
    attributes, object classes, object permissions, roles, users,
    initials SIDs, MLS components, network and file system contexts,
    and booleans), and policy rules (type allow, neverallow,
    auditallow, dontaudit, type_transition, type_change, role allow,
    role_transition, and range_transition).

  + Create and query an on-disk database that contains SELinux
    context information about the filesystem.

  + Perform some automated analysis of policies, including forward and
    reverse domain transition analyses, direct information flow
    analysis, as well as transitive (indirect) information flow
    analysis, direct relabel analysis, and type relationship analysis.

The tool supports binary as well as source policies, using all of the
features of apol as appropriate.  However, apol cannot display the
policy source or line numbers when given a binary policy, so those
features are disabled. In addition, attributes and initial SIDs data
are inferred by the policy contents.  Otherwise, apol treats the two
types of policies similarly.

Apol provides compatibility with the current and previous policy
syntax, to support analysis of all policy versions from version 12 to
the current version 21.

See setools/ChangeLog for a list of new features in this release.  See
setools/KNOWN_BUGS for a list of current bugs.


Menus
-----
The File menu allows you to open a valid source or binary policy file,
i.e., one that file can be successfully parsed using checkpolicy
-d.  Only one policy file can be open at a time; opening a second file
will result in the first being closed.

The Query menu allows you to save or load a query for a TE Rules
search or for an analysis module listed on the Analysis tab.  Saving a
query writes the appropriate parameters and settings to a '.qf' file:
for TE Rules queries, the required query parameters are saved; for
analysis queries, the required query parameters as well as the
specified advanced settings are saved.  When loading a query, apol
parses the specified query (.qf) file, raises the correct tab and
configures the query options with the specified query parameters and
advanced settings.  The load query menu item is enabled across all
tabs, but the save query menu item is only enabled when the Analysis
tab or the TE Rules tab (see the Policy Rules tab description below)
is raised.  The Query menu also allows you to display statistics about
the currently loaded policy.  A shorthand version of these statistics
is always displayed on the status bar when a policy file is opened.

The Advanced menu allows you to directly manage permission mappings
for apol's direct and transitive information flow analyses.  Although
this dialog is not required to perform an information flow analysis,
it provides additional control over permission mappings.  See the
separate help file on information flow for more information about
permission mappings and their management.


Policy Components tabs
----------------------
The policy components tabs provide the means to examine, search, and
relate the core components of an SELinux policy.

  Types tab
  ---------
  Use the Types tab to search through types and attributes.  Double
  click or right click on any type or attribute in the list boxes to
  see full details for that type/attribute.  If a file index has been
  loaded (see File Contexts tab description below), details will
  include files labeled with that particular type or attribute.

  Use the search options and hit the OK button to perform searches for
  types.  Alternately, use the "Search using regular expression" box
  to search for types and/or attributes using a POSIX-style regular
  expression.

  Classes/Perms tab
  -----------------
  Use the Classes/Perms tab to view and search object classes, common
  permissions, and permissions defined in a policy.  Double clicking
  on any name from the three list boxes gives a brief summary of the
  class, permission, or common permission. Use the search options to
  view more detailed aspects of classes and permissions.

  For example, to display the objects that use the permission getattr,
  select "Permissions", and the button "Object Classes" directly below
  it.  Then select "Search using regular expression" and type
  "^getattr$" in the box.  Press OK and a list of object classes that
  use that permission displays (a * will mean that the class uses that
  permission via a common permission).

  Regular expressions can be used to constrain the search.  For
  example, to find all the permissions that start with the string
  "set", use the regular expression "^set".

  Roles tab
  ----------
  Use the Roles tab to search roles and their allowed types.
  Functionality for this tab is essentially the same as the Types tab
  (e.g., double click on a role for details about that role).

  The primary search option provides the means to find all roles that
  include a given type.

  Users tab
  ---------
  Select the Users tab to search users defined in the policy and to
  view the roles allowed for that user, the default MLS level and
  allowed MLS range for users (if a MLS policy is loaded).

  Booleans tab
  ------------
  Select the Booleans tab to search the boolean variables defined in
  the policy, as well as to view the current state and/or policy
  default state of the variable.  This tab also provides the interface
  to change the state of the boolean variable to TRUE or FALSE.  This
  boolean state change will be applied in memory and but will not
  change the state within the actual policy file.

  MLS tab
  -------
  Select the MLS tab to search sensitivities and categories in the
  policy, as well as to display the level statements for sensitivities
  and which sensitivites can be associated with a category.

  Initial SIDS tab
  ----------------
  Select the Initial SIDS tab to search initial sids defined in the
  policy, as well as to view the context for each initial sid.

  Net Contexts tab
  ----------------
  Select the Net Contexts tab to search network-based contexts
  (portcon, netifcon, and nodecon statements) defined in the policy.

  FS Contexts tab
  ---------------
  Select the FS Contexts tab to search filesystem-based contexts
  (fs_use_ and genfscon statements) defined in the policy.


Policy Rules tabs
-----------------
The Policy Rules tabs allow more advanced analysis of an SELinux
policy.  They provide the means to search and select from the many
rules in a policy based on selected search criteria.

  TE Rules tab
  ------------
  Select the TE Rules tab to search through the Type Enforcement
  rules.  This is the most extensively used tab, as well as the most
  complicated.
	
  Three different types of search criteria exist for TE Rules:
	
    1. RULE SELECTION: provides options to limit the scope of search;
       only those rules selected will be included in the search.  At
       least one must be selected.  NOTE: If no additional search
       criteria is specified, apol will search for all of the selected
       rules.
		
    2. TYPE/ATTRIBUTES SUBTAB: provides options to refine a search
       based on types and/or type attributes used by a rule.  There
       are three general type search options: source, target, and
       default.  Default is useful only if one or more of type
       transition/member/change rules are selected; other rules do not
       use the default field.  The source field also can be used as an
       "any" field.  In this case, the other two options will not be
       available, and the search will look for the selected
       type/attribute in any field of the selected rules.

       Use drop down boxes to select a type or attribute. If the
       "Search using regular expression" box is checked, enter a
       regular expression in any type/attrib box.  If regular
       expressions are disabled, apol currently supports only one
       type/attribute in each box.  This type/attrib must be a
       complete, valid type or attrib string.  The Default field can
       only be a type (not an attribute).

       If the "Search only enabled rules" checkbox is selected, query
       results will include all rules that meet the search criteria,
       EXCLUDING any rules that have been disbled by a conditional
       expression.  If the checkbox is not selected, query results
       will include all rules that meet the search criteria, INCLUDING
       those rules that have been disabled by a conditional
       expression.
		
       Typically a search for a particular type also returns rules
       that employ any of that type's attributes.  Likewise, a search
       for an attribute returns rules that use any of that attribute's
       types.  This "indirect" searching is enabled by default.  The
       "Only direct matches" checkbox alters the meaning of the search
       field such that it performs literal searches upon the
       identifier.

    3. CLASSES/PERMISSIONS SUBTAB: provides options to refine a search
       using object classes and/or permissions.  Only rules that
       contain the selected object classes and selected permissions
       will be returned.  Each of these boxes allow multiple
       selections.  In the case of multiple select, apol treats them
       using an "or" semantic (e.g., if two object classes, such as
       'dir' and 'file', are selected, rules that apply to file OR
       directory object classes are selected).

       This tab also includes a section for Allow and Audit Rule
       Permissions, as a means to prune the list of permissions based
       on the object classes selected.  However, if allow and/or audit
       rules have not been selected, the Allow and Audit Rule
       Permissions section will be disabled since permissions will not
       apply in this case.  If "All for selected classes" is selected,
       only permissions related to selected objects are shown.
       "Common to selected classes" instead only shows permissions
       that all selected classes have.
	
  In the Results Tab for a given search, all rules that meet the
  search criteria are displayed.  In addition, if the policy that is
  opened is a policy source file, a hyperlink for each rule is shown.
  Clicking on this link will raise the policy.conf tab and highlight
  the exact line in the policy.conf file where the rule was found.
  This traces the rule back to the ultimate source code. If the policy
  is a binary policy, the hyperlinks will not be provided and the
  policy.conf tab will be disabled.

  The TE Rules Tab also supports multiple results windows.  Each
  active window remembers the search options used for it, and will set
  all the options accordingly when selected.  Use the "Update Search"
  button to change the results displayed for the current window based
  on the current search option.  "New Search" creates a new results
  window based on the current search options.  Use the "Close Tab" bar
  at the bottom to destroy a results window.  Also, the TE Rules tab
  provides the means to save/load search criteria to a file (see Menus
  section above).

  Conditional Expressions tab
  ---------------------------
  Select the Conditional Expressions tab to search conditional
  expressions within the policy, as well as to view the rules within
  these conditional expressions.  Note that conditional expressions
  are displayed in Reverse Polish Notation.
			
  By default, all conditionals are displayed; however you can search
  conditional expressions that use a specific boolean variable, as
  well as choose whether to use a regular expression.  The current
  state of each rule is provided by means of a tag within the results:
	
      [Enabled] - indicates the rule is enabled
      [Disabled] - indicates the rule is disabled	

  RBAC Rules tab
  --------------
  Select the RBAC Rules tab to search role-based access control rules.
  It is similar in nature to the TE Rules tab, but somewhat simpler.
  It supports searches of both role allow and role_transition rules.

  As with TE Rules, the Source role can also be used in an "any"
  search.

  Range Transition Rules tab
  --------------------------
  Select the Range Transition Rules tab to search to search
  range_transition rules by source and target types and by the MLS
  range.  There are three options when searching for ranges; find
  exact matches to the entered range, find rules that have ranges
  that contain the entered range, or find rules that have ranges 
  within the entered range.

  
File Contexts tab
-----------------
The File Contexts tab is only available if apol has been built with
libselinux support (see the setools INSTALL file for details on
building apol with/without libselinux support).  The tab provides the
following features:

  Creating/Loading an Index File
  ------------------------------
  An index file is an on-disk database that contains SELinux context
  information about the filesystem, including SELinux users and types
  associated with file paths and object classes.  This tab provides
  the option of creating an index file or loading an existing one.  If
  an index file is not loaded, all search items will be grayed out and
  a red label indicating that an index file is not loaded is displayed
  at the top.  Buttons are presented for creating and loading an index
  file.  Selecting the 'Load' button displays a file selection dialog
  for choosing saved index file to load.  Selecting the 'Create and
  Load' button will display a dialog to specify the save file and the
  directory from which to start the indexing.  Here, add multiple
  directories from which to index by using the 'Add' button or simply
  input a colon-delimited list of directory path strings within the
  entrybox.  Upon selecting the 'Create' button, an index file will be
  created and then loaded into apol.

  Searching an Index File
  -----------------------
  Searches on the index file can be done by specifying the user, type,
  object class, or path search criteria to search for using the
  widgets provided.  Drop down lists and entryboxes are presented for
  specifying the search criteria, of which the drop down lists contain
  items from the index file.  Regular expressions can be specified for
  all fields except the object class field.  Additionally, you choose
  whether to include the file context and/or object class within the
  results. To perform a search, click the 'OK' button.  Once the
  search is finished, list of files that matched the criteria
  displays, along with the files' context and/or object type, if
  specified.


Analysis tab
------------
The Analysis tab provides automated analysis capabilities.  The "Info"
button provides a description for the selected analysis type.  Also,
this tab supports saving/loading any query criteria to a file (see
Menus section above).

  Domain Transition Analysis
  --------------------------
  Use the Domain Transition analysis module to specify a transition
  direction for the analysis.  The 2 directions provided are:

      FORWARD: The Forward Domain Transition (FDT) analysis takes a
	       starting SOURCE domain and presents a tree of all the
	       resulting TARGET domains that can be transitioned into
	       from that starting domain.  The tree can be walked to
	       follow the FDT tree to any depth.  The only restriction
	       is that a subtree will not expand if its parent is the
	       same as the node. Each node in the FDT tree represents
	       a TARGET domain to which the parent domain can directly
	       transition.

               The Forward Domain Transition (FDT) analysis also
	       provides the means to limit your query to find
	       transitions only to domains that are granted specific
	       object class permissions and/or are granted access to a
	       particular object type(s).  Use the 'Access Filters'
	       dialog to select object types object classes, and
	       permissions in order to limit the query to this
	       constrained analysis.  By default, all object types,
	       object classes and permissions are included in the
	       query.  Selecting an object class from the listbox
	       widget will display all permissions for that object
	       class.
		
               A specific example where this advanced feature would be
               useful is when one is seeking to find transitions from
               'user_t' to domains with write access to files in the
               'shadow_t' domain. In this case:

                 - Specify 'user_t' as the source domain.
                 - Using the Access Filters dialog, select the
		   'shadow_t' object type, 'file' object class, and
		   'write' permission.
	
      REVERSE: As its name implies, the Reverse Domain Transition
               (RDT) analysis is the reverse of the FDT analysis. The
               RDT takes a starting TARGET domain and presents a tree
               of all the resulting SOURCE domains that can directly
               transition to that TARGET domain.  The tree can be
               walked to follow the RDT tree to any depth.  The only
               restriction is that a subtree will not expand if its
               parent is the same as the node.  Each node in the RDT
               tree represents a SOURCE domain that can transition to
               its parent node.  This analysis does not provide the
               meands to constrain the query using the 'Access
               Filters' dialog, as is possible in Forward Domain
               Transition analysis.

  Selecting a child node will show all the rules that permit the
  transition to occur.  In the case of a Forward Domain Transition
  analysis, access granted to this target domain will also be appended
  to the results.

  See the separate help file for an overview of the criteria that
  constitute a valid domain transition.

  Direct Information Flow Analysis
  --------------------------------
  The Direct Information Flow (DIF) analysis takes a starting type and
  an information flow direction (IN, OUT, EITHER, or BOTH), and
  presents a tree with the starting type as the root node.  The child
  nodes represent other types in the policy where information flow can
  occur DIRECTLY between its parent node and itself.  If the flow
  direction is IN, information in the child node types can flow to the
  parent node type.  If the flow direction is OUT, information in the
  parent node can DIRECTLY flow to the child node.  If the direction
  is BOTH, information can flow from child to parent and from parent
  to child. If EITHER is selected, flow direction will be IN, OUT, or
  BOTH.

  Selecting a child node will show all the rules that permit the
  information flow to occur.  Results are sorted by object class.

  Results can be filtered by selecting one or more object classes.
  This will ensure that only those flows that are allowed for the
  selected object class will be shown (e.g., selecting file will
  prevent flows allowed for sockets from being presented).  Use a
  regular expression to limit the results by end type.  Only those end
  types that match the provided regular expression will be presented.

  See the separate help file on information flow for more information
  about direct information flow.

  Transitive Information Flow Analysis
  ------------------------------------
  Whereas the DIF analysis identifies information flows that are
  directly allowed by one or more explicit rule, the Transitive
  Information Flow (TIF) analysis attempts a much more extensive
  analysis.  Specifically the TIF identifies indirect paths between
  two types.  Since such paths can be circuitous or over many hops,
  this analysis is quite difficult to achieve.

  TIF takes a starting type and an information flow direction (To or
  From) and presents a tree with the starting type as the root node.
  The child nodes represent other types in the policy where
  information flow can occur (directly or transitively) between the
  parent node and itself.  If the flow direction is To, the
  information flow is to the parent node.  If the flow direction is
  From, the information flow is to the child node.

  Selecting a child node shows each step in the flow chain between the
  starting node and the child node, along with the rules that allow
  that step to occur.  Additionally, embedded in the text of the
  results is a hyperlink for finding more flows between the starting
  node and the selected child node.  This link displays a dialog to
  specify a time limit for the search and/or limit the number of flows
  to find in the search.

  As with the DIF analysis, results can be filtered using end type
  regular expression.

  Additionally, the TIF analysis provides the Advanced Filters dialog
  for filtering results by object class permissions and/or types.
  Selecting an object class in the Advanced Filters dialog will
  display a list of permissions for that object class, whereby certain
  permissions can be included or excluded.  By default, all
  permissions for an object class are included in the query, unless a
  permission's 'Exclude' radiobutton is selected.  Configuring all
  permissions for an object class to be excluded will exclude the
  object class itself from the query. When an object class becomes
  excluded, its label will change to indicate that the object class is
  to be excluded from the analysis query.

  Additionally, the Advanced Filters dialog displays the weight value
  of a permission, as specified in the loaded permission map.  See the
  separate help file on information flow for more information about
  managing permission mappings.  Specify a weight threshold in order
  to exclude permissions from the results that have weights below a
  certain threshold.  Query results can also be filtered by including
  or excluding intermediate types.

  See the separate help file on information flow for more information
  about transitive information flow.

  Direct Relabel Analysis
  -----------------------
  See the separate help file on direct file relabel analysis, which can
  be accessed from the help menu in apol.

  Types Relationship Summary Analysis
  -----------------------------------
  See the separate help file on types relationship summary analysis,
  which can be accessed from the help menu in apol.


Policy.conf tab
---------------
The Policy.conf tab provides a convenient display of the raw policy
source file.  In addition, the TE rules tab and the Domain Transition
analysis (on the Analysis tab) support a hyperlink to this tab if the
loaded policy is a source file.  Otherwise, this tab is disabled and
hyperlinks to this tab will not be provided.
